# Entry 1: Deciding on Tool
##### 11/9/2022

For this project, I decided to use [OpenAI GPT-3](https://openai.com/api/) as my freedom project tool. For this year's freedom project, I am deciding on making an interactive AI that can respond to the user. The special thing about this interactive AI is that its main purpose will be listening to what the user has to say especially if it's a negative thought. The AI's main goal is to respond and try to comfort the user in hopes of making them feel better. Nowadays there are so many things that we are just caught up in our daily lives that can ruin our mood. It makes it hard to talk to a friend since everyone is just a bit busy now to be there to listen to what we might have to say. The tool that I would be using is OpenAI GPT-3 because it is a machine-learning tool that can learn and adapt to different prompts as input. This program will be able to recognize patterns to help it respond to the user. The main goal of this interactive AI would be to be a good and empathic friend to the user. Patiently listening to everything the user has to say and simply making them also feel heard. Overall the main purpose of this interactive AI is to be a good listening friend that everyone deserves to have.

OpenAI GPT-3 is a good tool for this project because it is a machine learning tool that is specialized in creating short responses by scanning the prompt of the user. It will scan for the keywords within the user's input to help it generate its unique output. This helps create a good AI since it will be able to respond to the user correctly, and not respond with something completely random. OpenAI GPT-3 is mostly machine learning which means that it will be a program that will be learning on its own about how to respond to each message. This is important because I won't know exactly word for word what the user will type in, and tell the program to respond accordingly. So the only best way is to teach the program to learn how to view each input and find its way of responding. Another tool that I would be using is my [IDE](https://code.cs50.io/) as a place to write my code and store my code in a safe place. It can help me keep all the code and project-related things in one area and also help me stay organized. This also allows me to get back to it at any time to continue making progress in writing the code.

The step for the [Engineering Design Process](https://hstatsep.github.io/students/#edp) that I am currently working on is defining the problem. I had defined that the problem that I want to solve in this project is [mental health](https://www.mentalhealth.gov/basics/what-is-mental-health). I would like to give people an opportunity to express how they feel and have a safe place for them to feel that they are listened to by someone. Also giving them the feeling that there will always be someone there to listen to them and give advices at any time. My next step in the Engineering Design Process is to research and tinker more with my tool. I would need to understand machine learning to a greater extent. Even though machine learning is mostly program learning on its own, there are a lot of more complex things that I would need to uncover to create my program. I would need to do more research on how to code a program to do all of this learning.

One skill that I have been working on is problem decomposition. I started by picking a broad topic that I am passionate about which in this case is mental health. Then I went into a more in-depth dive into mental health, and settle upon the idea of helping people feel heard when they are feeling down. By breaking down the topic into a smaller and more managable size, I can now create a program to help me create a solution for people to be able to have a place to talk to someone. Another skill that I have learned is to learn on my own. Machine learning is a very new concept that very few people had try to use and implement into their projects. There is quite limited help I will be able to get from my peers, so most of the work I will be doing on my own. Learning and understanding machine learning will be a challenge, so I will be working on this skill throughout the whole project.

[Next](entry02.md)

[Home](../README.md)
